## Lead screw calibration and skew correction

The lead screws provided by the Openbuilds C-beam machine nominally provide 8 mm of linear travel for each rotation of the screw.  However, testing revealed that these screws consistently provide slightly more linear travel per revolution than the manufacturer specifies. If 8 mm of linear travel is assumed, the firmware should be configured to for 800 stepper motor microsteps per mm linear travel when using 1/32 microstepping. The [spring loaded plotter pen](https://github.com/matthew-yates/NanodropPrinter/tree/main/hardware/penPlotter) was used to draw calibration patterns on paper in order to measure the actual linear distance traveled using a setting of 800 microsteps per mm. The microsteps per mm firmware settings were then adjusted to correct for the lead screw inaccuracy on the X and Y axes.

The provided Jupyter notebook "leadCalibration.ipynb" sends G-code via USB serial communication to plot four concentric squares having sides 170, 120, 70, and 20 mm in length, respectively.  The sides of the squares are parallel to the X and Y axes of the printer.  After plotting, the length of each side of the squares printed on paper was measured.  The microsteps per revolution settings for X and Y axes were then adjusted until the lengths printed on paper match those expected from the calibration pattern design. It was found that the lead screws actually provide ~8.08 mm of linear travel per revolution. This ~1% difference from manufacturer specifications was corrected by proportionately reducing the microsteps per revolution settings in the firmware.

The square calibration patterns were also used to check for skew in the XY plane. If the X and Y axes of the printer are not exactly exactly perpendicular, the plotted pattern will be a parallelogram. To check for skew, the diagonal length connecting corners of the squares was measured and compared to that expected for 90 degree angles at the corners. Marlin firmware has an option to correct for skew, but it was found that this was not needed since care was taken during machine assembly to ensure X and Y axes were perpendicular.
